Japan is bracing itself for a severe
butter shortage threatening cake baking
and buttered toast lovers across the
country the Japanese government is
preparing to import emergency supplies
of butter as demand is expected to
outweigh supply by over 7,000 tons even
after the estimated imports now the root
of the problem is actually Japan's aging
population which has led to an overall
dairy deficit herds have now been cut
which have prompted farmers to focus the
available material towards the sale of
milk so we're talking about an aging
population it's quite a scary thought
here really that medical advances people
living longer are now leading to the
scarcity of these resources farming
Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi said that the
details of the emergency measure will be
announced at just this week he said this
he said the government plans to have
butter imports on a scale sufficient for
stable supply so there's this shortage
of domestic milk production and so now
all the efforts are going into available
milk and they are having to cut back on
butter this is actually the second time
it's happened to Japan only last year
they had to ration butter in the run-up
to the Christmas baking season so you
know it's getting to be a pretty scary
thing that the resource is running out
because of our aging populations I think
it goes to show something that we're
gonna start seeing more and more all
around the world that is they all be a
population and the fact that some
countries even we're talking about a
developed country we're talking about a
country that that itself did say you
used to be one of the top powers in the
world and still they face this shortage
of food to feed their population and why
because we keep there's more and more
and more of us and we are not planning
ahead and again we have to take
priorities I think that there's nothing
they can do leave you have to choose
between butter and milk you have to
choose milk you know that the kids rely
on milk so much more than butter and
butter at the end of it it's not that
healthy for you yeah big question how
important is butter anyway you know we
did talk here on lip TV about a shortage
of cocoa in the world we came to the
conclusion that although we would cry
about it we may be able to live without
but you know it does seem more of a
fundamental part of our diet though it's
not just about baking cakes it's used in
so many applications but you know we can
use oils and other things like this
around it it's just a very horrible
nasty thought to think that some of
these things that we really take for
granted are really running out and
already there are comments on the
articles about there saying that there
are no but there's no butter on the
supermarket shelves in Japan and as I
mentioned this is the second time around
that has happened now partly this is due
to a shortage of cows in Japan and the
strict import controls that they've put
on dairy products because there have
been a lot of problems over the years
with dairy obviously in the EU we have
quite a number of cows so they could
adjust their import controls accordingly
and let in more dairy products from from
the EU in Britain we have many cows much
milk but you know as mentioned this is a
developed country and this is a problem
happening because of the over aging
population let us know what you think
about this how important is butter what
would the world be like if we ran out of
it let us know your thoughts and please
keep watching the lip TV for more
stories like this